INSTALL.md, before:

# Knock-Knock Installation Guide

Knock-Knock can be installed most simply and universally using Docker, but also can be configured to run without Docker on Ubuntu/Debian and RHEL/CentOS/Fedora systems. All of these setups require a few prerequisites.

## Prerequisites

All installation methods require:

- Server with root access
- Public IP address (for receiving SSH attacks)
- Ability to expose port 22 to internet traffic
- **Real SSH moved to a non-standard port** (the honeypot needs port 22)

### Move Real SSH to a Different Port

**Do this first** or you will lock yourself out.

```bash
# Edit SSH config
nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config
# Change: Port 22
# To:     Port 2222   (or any unused port)

# Restart SSH (do this in a screen/tmux session or have console access)
systemctl restart sshd

# Test new port before disconnecting!
ssh -p 2222 user@your-server
```

### Open Firewall Ports

You must open up your firewall (if present) to expose ports 22, 80 or 443, and potentially your real SSH port. This is specific to your network configuration, so the exact steps are not presented here.

### GeoIP Databases

Knock-Knock uses MaxMind GeoLite2 databases for IP geolocation. You need a free MaxMind account.

1. Install geoipupdate:

**Debian/Ubuntu:**
```bash
apt install -y geoipupdate
```

**RHEL/CentOS/Fedora:**
```bash
dnf install -y geoipupdate
```

2. Create a free account at https://www.maxmind.com/en/geolite2/signup
3. Generate a license key in your account dashboard. Either download the config file and save it as `/etc/GeoIP.conf`, or edit the existing `/etc/GeoIP.conf` (created by the install) and add your `AccountID` and `LicenseKey`.

Then download the databases:
```bash
geoipupdate

# Ensure databases are at /usr/share/GeoIP (some distros use /var/lib/GeoIP)
[ ! -e /usr/share/GeoIP ] && ln -s /var/lib/GeoIP /usr/share/GeoIP

# Verify
ls /usr/share/GeoIP/GeoLite2-*.mmdb
```

Set up weekly auto-updates:
```bash
crontab -e
# Add line:
0 3 * * 3 /usr/bin/geoipupdate
```

### SSH Host Key (Systemd Only)

The honeypot needs an RSA key to present to connecting clients. **Docker users can skip this** — the Docker image generates one automatically.

```bash
cd /root/knock-knock
ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 2048 -f server.key -N ""
rm server.key.pub
chmod 600 server.key
```

---

## Option 1: Docker (Simplest, Universal)

Complete the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) above first (skip the SSH Host Key step — Docker handles it).

**Install Docker (skip if already installed):**
```bash
curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com | sh
```

### Using the Pre-built Image (Recommended)

A multi-arch image (amd64 + arm64) is published to GitHub Container Registry. You only need the `docker-compose.yml` file:

```bash
cd /root
git clone https://github.com/djkurlander/knock-knock.git
cd knock-knock

# Pull and start (uses pre-built image from ghcr.io)
docker compose up -d
```

### Building Locally

If you prefer to build from source:

```bash
cd /root
git clone https://github.com/djkurlander/knock-knock.git
cd knock-knock

# Build and start from Dockerfile
docker compose up -d --build
```

### Verify

```bash
docker compose logs honeypot-monitor   # Should show "Monitor Active"
docker compose logs web                # Should show uvicorn startup
```

That's it. Three containers (Redis, honeypot+monitor, web) start automatically and restart on failure.

**Useful commands:**
```bash
docker compose logs -f              # Follow all logs
docker compose restart              # Restart all services
docker compose down                 # Stop everything
docker compose up -d --build        # Rebuild after code changes
```

See [Optional Configuration](#optional-configuration) for various site-specific settings, and [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) if you run into issues.

---

## Option 2: Ubuntu/Debian

Complete the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) above first.

### System Dependencies

```bash
apt update
apt install -y redis-server python3.12 python3.12-venv
systemctl enable redis-server
systemctl start redis-server

# Install uv
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
source ~/.bashrc
```

### Clone and Setup

```bash
cd /root
git clone https://github.com/djkurlander/knock-knock.git
cd knock-knock

uv venv
source .venv/bin/activate
uv pip install paramiko geoip2 redis fastapi uvicorn[standard] python-dotenv
```

### Install Systemd Services

Sample unit files are in the `systemd/` directory:

```bash
cp systemd/*.service /etc/systemd/system/
systemctl daemon-reload
systemctl enable knock-monitor knock-web
systemctl start knock-monitor knock-web
```

### Verify

```bash
systemctl status knock-monitor knock-web

journalctl -u knock-monitor -f    # Should show "Honeypot Active" and "Monitor Active"
journalctl -u knock-web -f        # Should show uvicorn startup

# Test from another machine
ssh test@your-server-ip
# Open http://your-server-ip in browser
```

See [Optional Configuration](#optional-configuration) for various site-specific settings, and [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) if you run into issues.

---

## Option 3: RHEL/CentOS/Fedora

Complete the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) above first.

### System Dependencies

```bash
dnf install -y redis python3.12
systemctl enable redis
systemctl start redis

# Install uv
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
source ~/.bashrc
```

### Clone and Setup

```bash
cd /root
git clone https://github.com/djkurlander/knock-knock.git
cd knock-knock

uv venv
source .venv/bin/activate
uv pip install paramiko geoip2 redis fastapi uvicorn[standard] python-dotenv
```

### Install Systemd Services

Sample unit files are in the `systemd/` directory. The Redis service name may differ on RHEL-based systems:

```bash
cp systemd/*.service /etc/systemd/system/

# Update the Redis dependency in unit files
# Change "After=... redis-server.service" to "After=... redis.service"
sed -i 's/redis-server.service/redis.service/g' /etc/systemd/system/knock-monitor.service
sed -i 's/redis-server.service/redis.service/g' /etc/systemd/system/knock-web.service

systemctl daemon-reload
systemctl enable knock-monitor knock-web
systemctl start knock-monitor knock-web
```

### Verify

```bash
systemctl status knock-monitor knock-web

journalctl -u knock-monitor -f    # Should show "Honeypot Active" and "Monitor Active"
journalctl -u knock-web -f        # Should show uvicorn startup

# Test from another machine
ssh test@your-server-ip
# Open http://your-server-ip in browser
```

See [Optional Configuration](#optional-configuration) for various site-specific settings, and [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) if you run into issues.

---

## Optional Configuration

### Saving Individual Knocks (`--save-knocks`)

By default, the monitor only updates aggregated intel tables (top usernames, passwords, countries, ISPs, IPs). To also store every individual knock in SQLite for later analysis, enable the `--save-knocks` flag. This uses more disk space (~600 MB/year at typical traffic levels).

**Docker:** Copy the example override file and uncomment the `--save-knocks` command:
```bash
cp docker-compose.override.yml.example docker-compose.override.yml
# Edit docker-compose.override.yml and uncomment the honeypot-monitor command
docker compose up -d
```

**Systemd:** Append `--save-knocks` to the `ExecStart` line in `/etc/systemd/system/knock-monitor.service`, then reload:
```bash
systemctl daemon-reload
systemctl restart knock-monitor
```

### Enabling HTTPS

Place your SSL certificate and private key in the `certs/` directory:
```
certs/cert.pem   # Certificate or fullchain
certs/key.pem    # Private key
```

**Docker:** Copy the example override file (if you haven't already) and uncomment the SSL settings:
```bash
cp docker-compose.override.yml.example docker-compose.override.yml
# Edit docker-compose.override.yml and uncomment ENABLE_SSL, the 443 port, and the certs volume
docker compose up -d
```

**Systemd:** In `/etc/systemd/system/knock-web.service`, replace the HTTP `ExecStart` line with the commented-out HTTPS block, then reload:
```bash
systemctl daemon-reload
systemctl restart knock-web
```

### IP Blocklist

To immediately reject connections from specific IPs, add them to `data/blocklist.txt` (one per line). The honeypot reloads this file automatically every 60 seconds. Lines starting with `#` are ignored.

---

## Troubleshooting

### Port 22 already in use
```bash
ss -tlnp | grep :22
# Make sure real SSH is moved to another port first
```

### GeoIP lookups failing
```bash
ls -la /usr/share/GeoIP/GeoLite2-*.mmdb
# If missing, ensure /etc/GeoIP.conf includes: DatabaseDirectory /usr/share/GeoIP
# Then re-run: geoipupdate
```

### Redis connection errors
```bash
redis-cli ping   # Should return PONG
systemctl status redis-server   # or: systemctl status redis
```

### WebSocket not connecting
- Check browser console for errors
- Verify SSL certificates are valid
- Check if behind reverse proxy (Cloudflare, nginx) - may need WebSocket passthrough config

### View database contents
```bash
sqlite3 /root/knock-knock/data/knock_knock.db "SELECT * FROM knocks ORDER BY id DESC LIMIT 5;"
```

## Maintenance

```bash
# Restart all services (systemd)
./restart.sh

# Reset all data (clear database and Redis)
./restart.sh --reset-all

# Update GeoIP databases
geoipupdate

# Rotate SSL certs (if using Let's Encrypt)
certbot renew
cp /etc/letsencrypt/live/your-domain.com/privkey.pem /root/knock-knock/certs/key.pem
cp /etc/letsencrypt/live/your-domain.com/fullchain.pem /root/knock-knock/certs/cert.pem
systemctl restart knock-web   # or: docker compose restart web
```

## Security Notes

- The honeypot runs as root to bind port 22 - this is intentional
- Never expose the SQLite database or Redis to the network
- Keep your real SSH on a non-standard port
- Consider IP blocklisting repeat offenders via `data/blocklist.txt`
- The honeypot always rejects authentication - no shell access is ever granted

Commit message:

Default Docker web port to localhost-only
Bind web container to 127.0.0.1:80 so Docker doesn't bypass UFW
firewall rules. Users who want public access uncomment "80:80" in
the override file.

INSTALL.md, after:

# Knock-Knock Installation Guide

Knock-Knock can be installed most simply and universally using Docker, but also can be configured to run without Docker on Ubuntu/Debian and RHEL/CentOS/Fedora systems. All of these setups require a few prerequisites.

## Prerequisites

All installation methods require:

- Server with root access
- Public IP address (for receiving SSH attacks)
- Ability to expose port 22 to internet traffic
- **Real SSH moved to a non-standard port** (the honeypot needs port 22)

### Move Real SSH to a Different Port

**Do this first** or you will lock yourself out.

```bash
# Edit SSH config
nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config
# Change: Port 22
# To:     Port 2222   (or any unused port)

# Restart SSH (do this in a screen/tmux session or have console access)
systemctl restart sshd

# Test new port before disconnecting!
ssh -p 2222 user@your-server
```

### Open Firewall Ports

You must open up your firewall (if present) to expose ports 22, 80 or 443, and potentially your real SSH port. This is specific to your network configuration, so the exact steps are not presented here.

### GeoIP Databases

Knock-Knock uses MaxMind GeoLite2 databases for IP geolocation. You need a free MaxMind account.

1. Install geoipupdate:

**Debian/Ubuntu:**
```bash
apt install -y geoipupdate
```

**RHEL/CentOS/Fedora:**
```bash
dnf install -y geoipupdate
```

2. Create a free account at https://www.maxmind.com/en/geolite2/signup
3. Generate a license key in your account dashboard. Either download the config file and save it as `/etc/GeoIP.conf`, or edit the existing `/etc/GeoIP.conf` (created by the install) and add your `AccountID` and `LicenseKey`.

Then download the databases:
```bash
geoipupdate

# Ensure databases are at /usr/share/GeoIP (some distros use /var/lib/GeoIP)
[ ! -e /usr/share/GeoIP ] && ln -s /var/lib/GeoIP /usr/share/GeoIP

# Verify
ls /usr/share/GeoIP/GeoLite2-*.mmdb
```

Set up weekly auto-updates:
```bash
crontab -e
# Add line:
0 3 * * 3 /usr/bin/geoipupdate
```

### SSH Host Key (Systemd Only)

The honeypot needs an RSA key to present to connecting clients. **Docker users can skip this** — the Docker image generates one automatically.

```bash
cd /root/knock-knock
ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 2048 -f server.key -N ""
rm server.key.pub
chmod 600 server.key
```

---

## Option 1: Docker (Simplest, Universal)

Complete the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) above first (skip the SSH Host Key step — Docker handles it).

**Install Docker (skip if already installed):**
```bash
curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com | sh
```

### Using the Pre-built Image (Recommended)

A multi-arch image (amd64 + arm64) is published to GitHub Container Registry. You only need the `docker-compose.yml` file:

```bash
cd /root
git clone https://github.com/djkurlander/knock-knock.git
cd knock-knock

# By default, the dashboard is only reachable at http://localhost.
# To allow external access, copy the example override and uncomment the "80:80" port line:
#   cp docker-compose.override.yml.example docker-compose.override.yml

# Pull and start (uses pre-built image from ghcr.io)
docker compose up -d
```

### Building Locally

If you prefer to build from source:

```bash
cd /root
git clone https://github.com/djkurlander/knock-knock.git
cd knock-knock

# By default, the dashboard is only reachable at http://localhost.
# To allow external access, copy the example override and uncomment the "80:80" port line:
#   cp docker-compose.override.yml.example docker-compose.override.yml

# Build and start from Dockerfile
docker compose up -d --build
```

### Verify

```bash
docker compose logs honeypot-monitor   # Should show "Monitor Active"
docker compose logs web                # Should show uvicorn startup
```

That's it. Three containers (Redis, honeypot+monitor, web) start automatically and restart on failure.

**Useful commands:**
```bash
docker compose logs -f              # Follow all logs
docker compose restart              # Restart all services
docker compose down                 # Stop everything
docker compose up -d --build        # Rebuild after code changes
```

See [Optional Configuration](#optional-configuration) for various site-specific settings, and [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) if you run into issues.

---

## Option 2: Ubuntu/Debian

Complete the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) above first.

### System Dependencies

```bash
apt update
apt install -y redis-server python3.12 python3.12-venv
systemctl enable redis-server
systemctl start redis-server

# Install uv
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
source ~/.bashrc
```

### Clone and Setup

```bash
cd /root
git clone https://github.com/djkurlander/knock-knock.git
cd knock-knock

uv venv
source .venv/bin/activate
uv pip install paramiko geoip2 redis fastapi uvicorn[standard] python-dotenv
```

### Install Systemd Services

Sample unit files are in the `systemd/` directory:

```bash
cp systemd/*.service /etc/systemd/system/
systemctl daemon-reload
systemctl enable knock-monitor knock-web
systemctl start knock-monitor knock-web
```

### Verify

```bash
systemctl status knock-monitor knock-web

journalctl -u knock-monitor -f    # Should show "Honeypot Active" and "Monitor Active"
journalctl -u knock-web -f        # Should show uvicorn startup

# Test from another machine
ssh test@your-server-ip
# Open http://your-server-ip in browser
```

See [Optional Configuration](#optional-configuration) for various site-specific settings, and [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) if you run into issues.

---

## Option 3: RHEL/CentOS/Fedora

Complete the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) above first.

### System Dependencies

```bash
dnf install -y redis python3.12
systemctl enable redis
systemctl start redis

# Install uv
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
source ~/.bashrc
```

### Clone and Setup

```bash
cd /root
git clone https://github.com/djkurlander/knock-knock.git
cd knock-knock

uv venv
source .venv/bin/activate
uv pip install paramiko geoip2 redis fastapi uvicorn[standard] python-dotenv
```

### Install Systemd Services

Sample unit files are in the `systemd/` directory. The Redis service name may differ on RHEL-based systems:

```bash
cp systemd/*.service /etc/systemd/system/

# Update the Redis dependency in unit files
# Change "After=... redis-server.service" to "After=... redis.service"
sed -i 's/redis-server.service/redis.service/g' /etc/systemd/system/knock-monitor.service
sed -i 's/redis-server.service/redis.service/g' /etc/systemd/system/knock-web.service

systemctl daemon-reload
systemctl enable knock-monitor knock-web
systemctl start knock-monitor knock-web
```

### Verify

```bash
systemctl status knock-monitor knock-web

journalctl -u knock-monitor -f    # Should show "Honeypot Active" and "Monitor Active"
journalctl -u knock-web -f        # Should show uvicorn startup

# Test from another machine
ssh test@your-server-ip
# Open http://your-server-ip in browser
```

See [Optional Configuration](#optional-configuration) for various site-specific settings, and [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) if you run into issues.

---

## Optional Configuration

### Saving Individual Knocks (`--save-knocks`)

By default, the monitor only updates aggregated intel tables (top usernames, passwords, countries, ISPs, IPs). To also store every individual knock in SQLite for later analysis, enable the `--save-knocks` flag. This uses more disk space (~600 MB/year at typical traffic levels).

**Docker:** Copy the example override file and uncomment the `--save-knocks` command:
```bash
cp docker-compose.override.yml.example docker-compose.override.yml
# Edit docker-compose.override.yml and uncomment the honeypot-monitor command
docker compose up -d
```

**Systemd:** Append `--save-knocks` to the `ExecStart` line in `/etc/systemd/system/knock-monitor.service`, then reload:
```bash
systemctl daemon-reload
systemctl restart knock-monitor
```

### Enabling HTTPS

Place your SSL certificate and private key in the `certs/` directory:
```
certs/cert.pem   # Certificate or fullchain
certs/key.pem    # Private key
```

**Docker:** Copy the example override file (if you haven't already) and uncomment the SSL settings:
```bash
cp docker-compose.override.yml.example docker-compose.override.yml
# Edit docker-compose.override.yml and uncomment ENABLE_SSL, the 443 port, and the certs volume
docker compose up -d
```

**Systemd:** In `/etc/systemd/system/knock-web.service`, replace the HTTP `ExecStart` line with the commented-out HTTPS block, then reload:
```bash
systemctl daemon-reload
systemctl restart knock-web
```

### IP Blocklist

To immediately reject connections from specific IPs, add them to `data/blocklist.txt` (one per line). The honeypot reloads this file automatically every 60 seconds. Lines starting with `#` are ignored.

---

## Troubleshooting

### Port 22 already in use
```bash
ss -tlnp | grep :22
# Make sure real SSH is moved to another port first
```

### GeoIP lookups failing
```bash
ls -la /usr/share/GeoIP/GeoLite2-*.mmdb
# If missing, ensure /etc/GeoIP.conf includes: DatabaseDirectory /usr/share/GeoIP
# Then re-run: geoipupdate
```

### Redis connection errors
```bash
redis-cli ping   # Should return PONG
systemctl status redis-server   # or: systemctl status redis
```

### WebSocket not connecting
- Check browser console for errors
- Verify SSL certificates are valid
- Check if behind reverse proxy (Cloudflare, nginx) - may need WebSocket passthrough config

### View database contents
```bash
sqlite3 /root/knock-knock/data/knock_knock.db "SELECT * FROM knocks ORDER BY id DESC LIMIT 5;"
```

## Maintenance

```bash
# Restart all services (systemd)
./restart.sh

# Reset all data (clear database and Redis)
./restart.sh --reset-all

# Update GeoIP databases
geoipupdate

# Rotate SSL certs (if using Let's Encrypt)
certbot renew
cp /etc/letsencrypt/live/your-domain.com/privkey.pem /root/knock-knock/certs/key.pem
cp /etc/letsencrypt/live/your-domain.com/fullchain.pem /root/knock-knock/certs/cert.pem
systemctl restart knock-web   # or: docker compose restart web
```

## Security Notes

- The honeypot runs as root to bind port 22 - this is intentional
- Never expose the SQLite database or Redis to the network
- Keep your real SSH on a non-standard port
- Consider IP blocklisting repeat offenders via `data/blocklist.txt`
- The honeypot always rejects authentication - no shell access is ever granted
